# 共识
Consensus within the Ethereum network refers to the capacity for multiple nodes or agents to agree on the state of the blockchain at a given point in time. This is closely related but distinct from the conventional definition of consensus, which is defined as a general agreement between individuals or groups. In this context, the community must solve the challenges of coming to consensus both technically (within the network) and socially (to ensure that the protocol does not fork or fracture). This chapter will outline some of the technical methods for establishing consensus.

以太坊网络中的共识是指在一个特定的时间点，多个节点或者代理就某个区块链的状态达成同意的能力。

When it comes to the core function of decentralized record keeping and verification on the blockchain, it can become problematic to rely on trust alone to ensure that information added to the ledger is correct. This challenge is more pronounced in decentralized networks because there is no central entity to decide what should and should not be considered as truth. The lack of a central decision-making entity is one of the main attractions within the blockchain’s popularity because of the systems' resulting capacity to resist censorship and the lack of dependence on authority for permission or access to information. However, these benefits come at a potential cost because without a trusted arbitrator any disagreements, deceptions or differences need to be reconciled using mathematical, economic or social techniques. A decentralised system is therefore more resilient to attack but can be less decisive in responding to changes.

The capacity to come to consensus and trust information will have important implications for the future adoption and utility of blockchain technology as an asset class and technology. To address this challenge and maintain the valued property of decentralisation, the community continues to experiment with different models of consensus which are explored within this chapter.
